In this lecture we're going to add a toolbar to the recipe block the text inside the recipe block is
currently aligned to the left some users may want to align it to the center or to the right.
If I were to begin typing that a new paragraph block will be added above it.
I'll be provided a toolbar.
I have the option to change this to a heading align the text bold the text create a link etc. WordPress
allows us to add a toolbar to our blog that can manipulate the way a block looks and feels we even have
the power to add in our own options to the block.
For now I want to focus solely on adding the alignment options to our block the toolbar we're trying
to add is called block controls.
This is a component provided by WordPress.
It will take care of creating the UI and correctly position the toolbar for us.
Let's load it in.
Back inside the index file for the block.
I'm going to d structure two components.
The components will be block controls and alignment toolbar from the WP editor.
Object
once again the block controls component we'll take care of creating the container and UI for the toolbar.
The alignment toolbar component will take care of creating the buttons for the alignment toolbar.
This includes the icons and functionality as well.
Before we begin using these components we'll need to store the value for the alignment inside the attributes
object.
Create a new property called text alignment with a type of string.
We are not going to specify a source or selector even though the value will be used inside an attribute.
We're going to let WordPress keep track of the value.
I'll explain how this will work in just a moment.
For now let's keep moving forward now that we have an attribute to store the value.
Let's end the component to the block inside the block before the unordered list and the block controls
component
anything in between these tags will be placed inside the toolbar.
We want to place the alignment toolbar inside the toolbar so do so now this component requires two values.
The first is the value and the second is the function to run when the alignment changes.
I'm going to set the value to the text alignment attribute
for the unchanged property.
We're going to add an inline function will refer to the new value as new Val.
Using the prompts object called these set attributes function and pass in an object set the text alignment
property to new Val.
The event is triggered whenever a user selects an alignment.
We've updated the value.
The last step to all of this is to apply the alignment to the block inside the unordered list.
Add these style attribute.
This will be set to an object the properties inside the object will be converted into C assess properties
with their respective values.
We only need to set one property and that's the text a line property.
You'll notice that I'm writing this with camel casing react.
We'll take the time to convert this into its original C assess property.
This will apply to most C assess properties with multiple words for example background color is written
like this.
This is common practice among developers so be aware of that.
I'm going to set the alignment property to props dot attributes dot text alignment this will also need
to be applied to the save function.
Copy this code and paste it in the same area
we're finished.
Save your changes and D into the blocks directory then run the NPM run Jeb.
Command once the code has been compiled go to your recipe posts on the admin area you may see a message
saying the block has changed.
That's to be expected.
Just add the block again if you have your block selected then you should see the block controls component
appear above it.
You shouldn't be able to change the alignment easily if you were to inspect the element then you should
see the style attribute being applied to the unordered list.
The camel casing has also been converted into the appropriate CSX property.
If I were to change the alignment again then you should see the style update in real time.
This is fantastic.
Let's save the post and try viewing the post on the front end.
The tech should be aligned accordingly.
As you can see using Wordpress components is simple.
The block controls component will take care of appearing when the block is selected Gutenberg will handle
correctly placing the toolbar for you and most of the basic setup before I end this lecture.
I want to take a moment to talk about the attribute we created.
If you can recall we did not set a default source or selector.
However if I were to refresh the Gutenberg editor then you should see the text still align to the center.
The button will also be selected in previous lectures.
We had to save the value but this is not the case for the alignment open Heidi and select the Post's
stable search for the post where we have the alignment applied if you were to view the post content
then you'll see that everything is saved like before but with one change inside the team.
I'll comment you'll find an object with the attribute saved.
WordPress will attempt to save any attributes that don't have a selector in the comments for something
as simple as the text alignment.
I recommend storing it in the comment if you have something that takes up multiple lines or large values
then I recommend a selector in the end it's up to you.
You can store the value in an email attribute if you want.
For me I prefer to let WordPress save it.
All right.
That does it for the block controls component.
We'll continue our Gutenberg journey in the next lecture.
I'll see you there.